# Notes on Best, A., Terpstra, J. L., Moor, G., Riley, B., Norman, C. D., & Glasgow, R. E. (2009): Building knowledge integration systems for evidence-informed decisions

Yes! nu funkar det.

Ska bara skriva lite mer här 

[@choi2014knowledge]


Var det inte så vi sa eller? Jo, jag tror det.

# Notes on Nowotny, H., Scott, P., & Gibbons, M. (2003): 'mode 2' revisited: the new production of knowledge

* Aim or purpose of this article (as declared by authors)

** Description of trends and tendencies in science

- The nature of the research process is being transformed,
*** Three significant trends (or elements)
**** The 'steering of priorities'
***** This 'trend' operates at three levels
****** The supranational level
- Through for example the European Community Framework programmes which have attempted to shape research priorities and build research capacity to meet identified social and economic needs.

****** The national level
- Growing tendency to develop dedicated research programmes which attempt to both focus on short-term political agendas and develop long-term research capacities. Also a tendency for 'Foresight' exercises attempting to predict future research needs to be succeded by more directive approaches

****** The system level
- Research Councils have increased adaptation of more pro-active (or top-down) research priorities in place of essentially reactive (or bottom-up) policies
- Research Councils have much greater emphasis on thematic programmes
- Universities have a more aggressive management of research priorities

**** The commercialization of research (or 'engaged research')
***** Two main forms
****** Public funding less adequate
- As the public funding of research has become less adequate, researchers have increasingly turned to alternative sources of funding

- Has also led to a tendency of governments to define their role in research funding in quasi-commercial, rather than in fiduciary (tillitsbaserat, laggrundat) terms.

****** Greater awareness of 'intellectual property'
- Universities (and similar organizations) have become more aware of the value of the ‘intellectual property’ generated by their research

******* Background
- Public expenditure on higher education and research has failed to keep pace with costs so universities have been encouraged to develop alternative sources of income.

- With the emergence of a Knowledge Society, knowledge ‘products’, many of which are derived from university research, are increasingly valued, not in terms of their long-term potential, but in terms of immediate market return.

******* Consequences
- Exploitation of intellectual property transforms the organizational character of the university

- Exploitation of ‘intellectual property’ challenges the idea (ideal?) of science as a public good ("If ‘intellectual property’ is valuable, it cannot be given away ‘freely’ by open publication in peer-reviewed journals, or at scientific conferences open to all. However, the quality of science is largely determined by its exposure to refutation and counter-argument. This process becomes much more difficult if the circulation of research findings is restricted.")

**** The accountability of science
- The accountability of science or the growing emphasis placed upon the management of research – and, in particular upon efforts to evaluate its effectiveness and assess its quality

***** Background

- During the past decade, there has been a remarkable intensification of the associated processes of audit, assessment, and evaluation which has given rise to the suggestion that we now live in an ‘Audit Society’ (having sinuous but suggestive links with the Knowledge Society). These processes are at work at every level within the research system – within the research team, as it evaluates the contributions of its individual members; in departments, as they seek to maximize their research performance; and in institutions, as they struggle to manage their overall research efforts, as well as in funding councils and government departments

- A mistake to imagine that accountability is being forced upon universities and other research institutions by hostile external forces [...] The processes of assessment and accountability have been deeply internalized – and, at the same time, have moved from the arena of professional (or collegial) responsibility to the domain of organizational (and managerial) competence.

***** Criticism

- No measurement system, however scrupulously used, can fail to affect the behaviour of that which it seeks to measure.

- Distortions are produced and hierarchies are reinforced by the taxonomy of the assessment process itself, notably by the demarcations between units-of-assessment. Interdisciplinary research has to be clumsily disaggregated, while truly creative research in the borderlands between disciplines is devalued.

- Research management mechanisms have encouraged researchers to espouse industry-style production. It is said to be safer to deliver predictable (and second-best?) results on time than ground-breaking research, late.

*** As a result of these trends: A new discourse of science?


**** As a result in Britain...
- Research Councils [...] now include 'user' representatives alongside more traditional scientific peers
- Detailed impact studies and lengthy evaluations have become routine
- Knowledge’ is now regarded not as a public good, but rather as ‘intellectual property’, which is produced, accumulated, and traded like other goods and services in the Knowledge Society.
**** In the process a new language has been invented
- A language of application, relevance, contextualization, reach-out, technology transfer, and knowledge management
**** Efforts to develop this new language have produced an extensive body of literature including a literature of 'regret'
- See references for examples of this literature


** An account of arguments in 'The New Production of Knowledge'


*** Reflective essay
De betonar att boken vare en "reflective essay" och ingen "empirical study".


*** Syftet med boken
Syftet var "as much to address the need to invent a new language of research, as to offer a detailed analysis of the trends we have just described". Det är intressant att de betonar just språket och att det måste uppfinnas ett nytt språk. Det belyser hur betydelsefullt språket är för vårt sätt att tänka och förstå världen.

*** Begreppet 'Mode 2'-kunskapsproduktion
I boken lanserades begreppet 'Mode 2'-kunskapsproduktion och sattes i kontrast till 'Mode 1' - forskning.

*** Syftet med 'Mode 2'-begreppet

**** "The idea of ‘Mode 2’ knowledge
- "The idea of ‘Mode 2’ knowledge, in our view, is a useful tool to unlock some of these apparently contradictory phenomena. For example, the tension between modernity (Enlightenment values and scientific culture) and modernization (the application of science and technology) becomes much less of a problem if a ‘Mode 2’ perspective is adopted." [188]
*** 'Mode 2'-kunskapsproduktions fem kännetecken:

**** Att kunskapen genereras i en kontext av tillämpning (application)
- Att kunskapen genereras i en kontext av tillämpning (application) (Tänker oundvikligen på ämnet 'Applied Health Technology', haha), till skillnad från i 'Mode 1' där tillämpning mer sker i form av att teknik/tekniker/(praktiker?) överförs (is 'transferred') och kunskap hanteras (is 'managed'). I 'Mode 2' däremot syftar tillämpning på den totala miljön där vetenskapliga problem uppstår, metoder utvecklas och outcomes dissemineras och användning definieras. Var befinner vi oss här? Vi pratar ju ändå om 'kunskapstransformation' som att vi ser det på ett 'Mode 1'-vis fortfarande där kunskap 'hanteras', eller? På BTH var det tydligt att hela kunskap genereras mer i en tillämpningskontext.


**** 'Transdisciplinaritet'
- 'Transdisciplinaritet' är ett annat kännetecken för 'Mode 2. Det kreativa ligger lika mycket i kapaciteten att mobilisera och hantera olika perspekiv och metodologier (den 'externa' orkestreringen) som i att utveckla nya teorier och konceptualiseringar eller förfina forskningsmetoder, den 'interna' dynamiken i vetenskaplig kreativitet. Det handlar alltså, som jag tolkar detta mycket om att uppvisa en förmåga att samarbeta och visa och redovisa att man kan hantera komplexa projekt med många perspektiv, lika mycket det som resultatet av själva forskningen. I 'Mode 1' var inte uppvisandet av den förmågan lika viktig. Och mycket riktigt skriver författarna sen att: "'Mode 2' knowledge is embodied in the expertise of individual researchers and research teams as much as, or possibly more than, it is encoded in conventional research products such as journal articles or patents". [186] Det var ju exakt det jag kände med SMART4MD att det var de här dissemination reports som till sist blev viktigast, mycket viktigare än själva forskningsproduktionen, och det är ju faktiskt åt helvete fel på ren svenska.


**** Större bredd eller mångfald ('diversity')
- Ett tredje  kännetecken för 'Mode 2' är den större bredden eller mångfalden ('diversity') när det gäller platser för kunskapsproduktion, och också gällande vad för slags kunskap som produceras. När det gäller platser har utvecklingen av ICT möjligjort samarbeten som inte var möjliga på samma sätt tidigare, "interaction is unconstrained - and instantaneous" [187] som de skriver. Att kommunikationen inte längre sker bakom lyckta dörrar utan mer oberoende av fysiskt plats har också öppnat dörrarna för många nya slags _'knowledge' organisations_ som think-tanks och managementkonsulter att delta i forskning.


**** Ökade reflexivitet
- Ett fjärde kännetecken är den ökade reflexiviteten där forskningsprocessen förvandlats från en undersökning med en början och ett slut och med en tydlig adressat, till en dialogisk process och till en till synes ändlös konversation mellan forskningsaktörer och forskningsdeltagare ("research subjects") till den grad att det grundläggande vokabuläret (who, whom, what, how) är på väg att förlora sin betydelse. Konsekvenserna (förutsägande och oavsiktliga) med forskning befinner sig inte längre "utanför" den gängse forskningsprocessen eftersom preblemlösande miljöer påverkar ämnesval, forskningsdesign liksom slutanvändare. De
det här stämmer verkligen och det kopplar an till [201910101053]- Mina tankar om kunskapstransformation.


**** Svår att kvalitetsbedöma
- Ett femte kännetecken handlar om kvalitetskontroll och att 'Mode 2'-kunskapsproduktion är svår att kvalitetsbedöma med hjälp av scientific 'peers' på mer traditionellt vis. Dels eftersom transdisciplinariteten och de breda forskningsfrågorna gör att det är svårt att veta varifrån man ska hämta expertisen. Dels därför att kriterier för vad som kännetecknar forskning av god kvalitet inte längre är entydiga. "Instead, we must learn to live with multiple definitions of quality, a fact that seriously complicates (even compromises) the processes of discrimination, prioritization, and selectivity upon which policy-makers and funding agencies have come to rely." [187-188]".

*** 'Mode 2'-kunskapsproduktions sex konkreta kontexter

**** Kommersialiseringen av forskningen
- Första kontexten handlade om kommersialiseringen av forskningen som i boken belystes nyanserat och inte bara som antingen ett hot mot vetenskaplig autonomi eller en nödvändig revitalisering av  prioriteringar och tillämpning i forskning, såsom det vanligtvis låter i debatten.

**** Expansionen av högre utbildning och forskning
- Andra kontexten handlade om expansionen av högre utbildning och forskning och hur de initialt ofta sågs som "uneasy bedfellows" [188] men hur på de på senare år har ställts alltmer mot varandra. Här hävdades att "mass access and high-quality research have come to be driven by, and to address, different value systems" [188]. Dock verkar den expanderade utbildningen utgöra ett större hot för 'Mode 1'-forskning jämfört med 'Mode 2'-forskning och att i takt med att 'Mode 2'-forskning vinner mark minskar spänningen dem emellan och "new synergies are apparent betwen the democratization of higher education and the wider social distribution of knowledge production" [188].

**** Humaniorans roll i produktionen av kunskap
- Tredje kontexten handlade om humaniorans roll i produktionen av kunskap. Normalt betraktas humanioran som den mest frånvända disciplinen men i boken argumenteras för att den i själva verket är den mest engagerade, inte bara genom sitt populärvetenskapliga genomslag (i form av t.ex. romaner och populärhistoria) utan främst för sättet på vilket de humanistiska ämnena "comfortably (and inevitably) embody notions of reflexivity which the natural, and even the social, sciences distrust."

**** Globaliseringens konsekvenser
- Fjärde kontexten var globalisering där det hävdades att globaliseringens massiva dataflöden har gjort kunskap till en "key resource" [188] och vetenskaplig kunskap har genom globaliseringen blivit bättre integrerad och distribuerad.

**** Potential re-configuration of institutions and management of ‘Mode 2’ knowledge
- Femte och sjätte kontexten var de minst utvecklade. De handlade om "the potential re-configuration of institutions that flowed from the wider distribution and greater reflexivity of knowledge production; and, second, the management of ‘Mode 2’ knowledge." [189] Den moderna världens expertbaserade institutioner är nödvändiga för social och teknisk utveckling men formar också person- och gruppidentiteter och påverkar hur kunskap konstitueras och används. Och beträffande kunskapsproduktion så spelar de ingen roll hur väldistribuerad, transdisciplinär, heterogen, reflexiv den är, den måste ändå hanteras ("be managed") [189]. Fler val måste göras snarast kring vetenskapliga prioriteringar och även om valmöjligheterna gör det svårare att hantera kunskapsproduktionen så måste den ändå hanteras, men på nya sätt.


** An account of arguments in 'Re-Thinking Science'


*** Reflective essay
De betonar att boken vare en "reflective essay" och ingen "empirical study

*** Syftet med boken
- Syftet med boken var: "as much to address the need to invent a new language of research, as to offer a detailed analysis of the trends we have just described".

- Syftet med boken var också att besvara den mest substantiella kritiken som väckts i den förra boken och genom att addressera den ge en mer teoretisk redogörelse för argumentet som framförts i förra boken

- To fill some of the gaps in the argument in The New Production of Knowledge – notably, the absence of an adequate social theory, and the lack of a convincing refutation of the claim that ‘Mode 2’ knowledge is a secondary activity.

- To identify the key changes taking place in society. In the 1970s, these were confidently described in the language of industrial society. This assumed a post-industrialism in which knowledge accessible to (almost) all would replace physical, energy, and financial resources rationed to the rich and in which the rough edges of ideological conflict would be smoothed away. Knowledge would create prosperity. In the past quarter century, this optimistic vision has been superseded by dark images of a society in which risks have remorselessly accumulated and new hegemonic ‘networks’ have emerged.

*** Increasingly transgressive sub-systems of modernity
Argumenterade för att "the great sub-systems of modernity (State, Market, Culture – and Science), once clearly partitioned, were becoming increasingly transgressive" [190]. De menar att det var just denna "fuzziness" som hjälpte till att skapa "the transaction spaces" där 'Mode 2'-kunskap utvecklas och kanske även de nya sociala rörelserna.

*** Fyra kännetecken för 'Mode 2'
Fyra kännetecken för 'Mode 2' tydliga i såväl samhället som i forskningen:

- the generation of uncertainty/ies, which reduces the possibility of post-positivistic planning – in both arenas;

- the trend towards self-organization, which is intimately related to the growth of reflexivity – again in both domains;

- the emergence of new forms of ‘economic rationality’, according to which, as in any ‘futures’ market, the potential of science is measured by its immanent rather than its instrumental value

- the re-constitution of time/space, of which the revolution in information and communication technology is one aspect.-


*** ‘Context of application' better explained
In the book the assertion in The New Production of Knowledge that ‘Mode2’ knowledge was produced in a ‘context of application’, was refined into a more developed argument about different forms of contextualization, so removing any possible doubt about a facile identification between such knowledge and applied research.

**** Different forms of contextualization

***** ‘Weak contextualization’
- The first was ‘weak contextualization’. Counter-intuitively, perhaps, national R&D programmes are a good example because, to succeed, they must simplify both.

***** Contextualization in the ‘middle range'
- The second was contextualization in the ‘middle range’, in which the majority of ‘Mode 2’ knowledge production is clustered. Here, so-called ‘trading zones’, transaction spaces, and what we labelled ‘Mode-2 objects’ play a crucial role in determining a form of contextualization in which local contingencies shape synergy and potential.

***** ‘Strong contextualization'
- The third was ‘strong contextualization’, where powerful reflexive articulations between science and society are at work. This may take highly-specific forms, or relate to the interaction between the world of ideas and much wider social movements, such as feminism or environmentalism.


*** Evidence in support of claim that 'Mode 2' not merely a secondary phenomenon
Three pieces of evidence were offered in support of the claim that this new knowledge form was not merely a secondary phenomenon, contingent on ‘Mode 1’ science

**** First evidence
- The first was that ‘Mode 2’, especially in its trans-disciplinary dimension, could make a fundamental contribution to the development not only of new methodologies but also of new concepts and theories.

**** Second evidence
- The second piece of evidence was that the epistemological core of science, the values in which it is ultimately rooted, may be a mirage; often it is empty (as, for example, when scientific ideas are absorbed by non-host cultures, predominantly as technical artefacts without regard to their original normative significance) or,more usually, when it is crowded with competing epistemologies.

**** Third evidence
- The third was that reliable knowledge, the traditional goal of scientific inquiry, is no longer (self?) sufficient in the more open knowledge environments that are now emerging; knowledge also needs to be ‘socially robust’, because its validity is no longer determined solely, or predominantly, by narrowly circumscribed scientific communities, but by much wider communities of engagement comprising knowledge producers, disseminators, traders, and users.

*** Two new ideas
Two new ideas were introduced

**** The concept of agora

- This archaism was deliberately chosen to embrace the political arena and the market place – and to go beyond both.

- The agora is the problem-generating and problem-solving environment in which the contextualization of knowledge production takes place.

- It is populated not only by arrays of competing ‘experts’, and the organizations and institutions through which knowledge is generated and traded, but also by variously jostling ‘publics’.

- It is not simply a political or commercial arena in which research priorities are identified and funded, nor an arena in which research findings are disseminated, traded, and used. The agora is a domain of primary knowledge production – through which people enter the research process, and where ‘Mode 2’ knowledge is embodied in people and projects.

**** The context of application.

- The context of application seems silently to reinforce notions of hierarchy and linearity, and to suggest that positivistic predictions of applicability are possible,

- BUT, against a background of inherent uncertainty about the future state of knowledge, from which scientific potential was derived, it is necessary to reach beyond the knowable context of application, towards the unknowable context of implication. Here knowledge-seekers have to reach out and anticipate reflexively the implications of research processes.

** A brief speculation about next steps




- There is need to systematically explore the implications of these ideas for systems and institutions in general

- Closure of the ‘Mode 2’ debate is neither possible nor desirable.

- The project has many of the characteristics of the much more open knowledge production systems that it is attempting to analyse – wide social distribution, trans-disciplinarity, the need for social robustness, and the creative potential of controversies.

** Description of the content in this journal

- Consists of five articles that address themes emerging from both books (and other interventions and contributions to the wider debate).

- In the first, John de la Mothe discusses the impact of more subtle readings of the process of innovation on policy organizations and policy behaviour, and therefore addresses one of the shortcomings in our analysis.

- Next, Olle Edqvist describes the layers of Swedish research policy laid down in the 1940s, 1960s, and 1990s as embodying three different models of science – as the motor of progress; problem-solver; and strategic opportunity. In his view, ‘Mode 2’, or distributed knowledge production, has been the historical norm; it is ‘Mode 1’, or academic science, that is the recent interloper.

- In the third article, Sheila Jasanoff argues that it is necessary to increase civic participation in the governance of science to compensate for the erosion of the authority of technical experts, and urges the adoption of what she calls ‘technologies of humility’, which engage the human subject as both active agent and source of knowledge and insight. Her argument is a more eloquent extension of our account of the agora as a site of knowledge production.

- In the fourth article, Dominique Pestre asserts that the arguments in The New Production of Knowledge and Re-Thinking Science do not stress sufficiently the extent to which the evolution science and society, analysed in these two books, are the result of political and social choices. He is particularly interested in alternatives to what he regards as over-deterministic accounts. The neglect of power relationships we acknowledge to be one of the most significant weaknesses in both our books, and Pestre’s account helps to remedy this weakness.

- Marilyn Strathern extends these arguments into new, anthropological territory by discussing to what extent ‘society’ can be described in sufficiently robust terms so that it can become a reference point, or counter-point, for ‘science’. Although in Re-Thinking Science we attempted to offer a more subtle account of ‘society’, Strathern’s article demonstrates the scale and scope of the work that remains to be done.



* References named in article of use for me:

- Thomas Kuhn, The Structure of Scientific Revolutions (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1970).


- Gary Gutting (ed.), Paradigms and Revolutions: Applications and Appraisals of Thomas Kuhn’s Philosophy of Science (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1980).


- Helga Nowotny, Peter Scott, and Michael Gibbons, Re-Thinking Science: Knowledge and the Public in an Age of Uncertainty (Cambridge: Polity Press, 2001).


- Michael Power, The Audit Society: Rituals of Verification (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1997).


- Diana Hicks and J. Sylvan Katz, ‘Science Policy for a Highly Collaborative Science System’, Science and Public Policy, 23 (1996), 39–44.


- John Ziman, Real Science: What it is, and What it Means (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000).


- Henry Etzkowitz and Loet Leydesdorff (eds.), Universities and the Global Knowledge Economy: A Triple Helix of University-Industry-Government Relations (London: Pinter, 1997).


- Karin Knorr-Cetina, Epistemic Cultures: How the Sciences Make Knowledge (Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 1999).



